So what exactly is functional safety?
Any product will have certain requirements or
functions describing what the product is supposed to do.
Our job as safety managers and engineers is
to make sure that these functions do not lead to injury or harm.
In the automotive industry,
functional safety specifically refers to reducing risk in electronic systems.
Automotive functional safety was developed out of
the increasing use of complex hardware and software systems in passenger vehicles.
In this module, we introduce you to
the main functional safety standards for the automotive industry,
ISO 26262, the standard used in
systems engineering to methodically reduce risk in passenger vehicle's E/E-Systems.
Because functional safety is just one part of the overall automotive safety,
we will start off with a general introduction to automotive safety.
In this lesson, we also present the basic building blocks for
carrying out a functional safety analysis according to the ISO standard.
The following lessons will go into the details of how we
use the standard to reduce risks in passenger vehicles.